STUYVESANT HIGH SCHOOL  
August 23, 2021 - Weekly Update - Issue 1



Dear Stuyvesant Community,
As the 2021-2022 school year approaches, we are excited about our students and faculty returning to fully in-person learning. It's been a busy and productive summer at Stuyvesant, yet we hope all had a chance to relax, rest and rejuvenate as we gear up to welcome back students on September 13.

We are especially excited to extend our traditional annual Camp Stuy beyond incoming freshmen to include rising sophomore students. Many have never experienced coming to the building, and last year attending remotely was a less than perfect start to high school. Big Sibs will be mentoring both our freshmen and sophomore classes, and we are all working together to provide them with support. We welcome the families of incoming freshmen to Camp Stuy for Parents on September 3 split in two half day sessions assigned by homeroom with health and safety as a priority. 

In this issue, we share some important updates on the upcoming school year, PSAL, events being planned, and share highlights from Summer 2021. You will find the most up-to-date information on the Talos Blog, with multiple posts per week. The Blog is translated into Chinese by toggling the flag in the upper right corner. Every Weekly Update will summarize and link to the Blog. You may read this email either in its entirety or click the links below to go directly to the web version of the story. The Weekly Update is also available in Chinese about 48 hours after the English release.

Sincerely,

Dina Ingram



FULL WEB VERSION

CLICK THE TOPIC BELOW TO GO TO THE WEB VERSION

UPDATES: 
Letter from Principal Yu on 2021-2022 School Year (August 19, 2021)
Vaccinations Required for Students and Staff Participating in High Risk PSAL Sports
Volunteer Parents needed at Camp Stuy for Freshmen Parents on 9/3/2021
Get your COVID-19 Vaccine & get $100 for you and the Stuy PA!
What has the Stuy Community been up to this summer?
EVENTS:
Camp Stuy for incoming freshmen AND rising sophomores 8/31-9/2. Check your email for your homeroom's assigned date and session time!
Camp Stuy for incoming freshman parents and guardians will take place on September 3, 2021 in person at Stuyvesant High School.
Pandemic-EBT (P-EBT) Information Webinar   August 25th 6:30PM-8:00PM
College Info Night for Seniors 9/14/2021; SAVE THE DATE!
CPAC (Chancellor's Parent Advisory Committee) Meeting - August 24, 2021 @9:30am
DEADLINES:
Sophomores: Join Mu Alpha Theta-by 8/29- National High School Mathematics Honor Society
Class of 2022: Get your Meningococcal Vaccine! Forms due by Fall 2021
Incoming Freshman Families: Complete all onboarding forms. Portal closes on 9/1/2021
RESOURCES:
Free, Fast Wi-Fi in NYC
Students, Interested in Varsity or JV Baseball? Reach out!
NY State Guidance for School Year 2021-22; Download the Guide
How to help someone who needs mental healthcare
NYC Students can access digital books FREE
 



AN UPDATE ON THE UPCOMING SCHOOL YEAR FROM PRINCIPAL YU
The letter below was sent to the Stuy community on August 19, 2021 via email:
Dear Stuyvesant Families,
I hope you are having a well-deserved summer break. Our summer has been busy as we recently finished our 6-week Summer Rising session last week—close to 170 students attended throughout the summer session working with our teachers to resolve NX grades from the 2020 - 2021 school year. It was so nice to see our students and teachers/staff who participated this summer interacting and engaging one another to help our young people catch up and/or get back on track. With the summer program now completed we are fully focused on the reopening for 2021 - 2022. We have one month until the first day of school and will continue to use the next four weeks to prepare our building and our community for reopening for all of our students and staff. In May the DOE announced that students benefit from in-person learning, and a full, safe return to in-person instruction is the priority. The DOE also shared in May that in accordance with CDC guidance, there would be a universal masking of all students, staff, teachers and visitors to K-12 schools, regardless of vaccination status. We have also used the CDCs Guidance for COVID-19 Prevention in K-12 Schools (updated August 5) to guide our planning. Key takeaways from the CDC guidance prioritize the following:
Vaccination is the leading public health prevention strategy to end the COVID-19 pandemic. Promoting vaccination can help schools safely return to in-person learning as well as extracurricular activities and sports. 
Screening testing, ventilation, handwashing and respiratory etiquette, staying home when sick and getting tested, contact tracing in combination with quarantine and isolation, and cleaning and disinfection are also important layers of prevention to keep schools safe.
Students, teachers, and staff should stay home when they have signs of any infectious illness and be referred to their healthcare provider for testing and care.
We encourage families to take advantage of the vaccines (NYC DOE offers vaccine clinics across the City) available to students in order to protect both themselves and others. The vaccination efforts combined with our layered safety precautions can help minimize transmission and infection rates of the Delta variant. Our layered approach will include the following strategies:
Mask usage for all students, staff, and visitors (masks will be available)
Vaccination and/or regular testing of all staff
Air purifiers (2 per classroom) in classrooms and office spaces
MERV 13 filters in the entire building and open dampers to maximize ventilation and airflow 
Hand sanitizer (dispensers in each classroom, various dispenser stations across the building, and individual bottles)
Water bottle fillers (2nd, 3rd, 5th, 6th floors) installation
Two student entrances for entrance and dismissal
Use of outdoor space (weather permitting) for Physical Education and lunch
Our custodial team has been working tirelessly to prepare the building and we know they will continue to support the efforts to maintain a clean and sanitized building.  I want to emphasize our layered approach to keep students and staff as safe as possible in preparation for September. We know you are eager and anxious about the new school year and we will offer as much information as we have available to keep you informed. In order to help you plan for the new school year, we will provide weekly email updates over the next four weeks to inform you about reopening procedures and guidelines. Please continue to review these weekly updates to help you prepare for September.  We do ask for your patience and understanding—we will need your partnership as we reopen to welcome back our students and staff. The following message is a good reminder for how we want to enter the new school year together.
Sincerely,
Seung C. Yu
Principal, Stuyvesant High School


 Vaccinations Required for Students and Staff Participating in High Risk PSAL Sports
Some of our 42 PSAL sports teams are already hosting tryouts, interest meetings and even practices! You can keep up-to-date with our Teams on the school website, www.stuy.edu Check the News as well as the Athletics tab.
As part of New York City's gold standard of health and safety in schools, the COVID-19 vaccination will be required for the ~20,000 students and staff participating in high-risk Public School Athletic League (PSAL) sports this year. This is in alignment with recent New York State and CDC guidance, which stated that high-risk sports and extracurricular activities should be virtual or canceled in areas of high community transmission unless all participants are fully vaccinated.
High-risk sports include the fall sports of football and volleyball, winter sports of basketball and wrestling, and spring sports of lacrosse, stunt, and rugby. In addition, vaccination will be required for bowling, because while not high-risk, it takes place in spaces that require vaccination. Fully vaccinated participants can remove their masks while engaging in high-risk PSAL activities held outdoors. 
Participants in fall high-risk sports are required to get their first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine by the first day of competitive play, which varies by sport. The first day of competitive play for football is September 3rd. The first day of competitive play for volleyball is September 27th. Winter and spring PSAL participants have until the beginning of their seasons to be fully vaccinated. 
Getting the vaccine is safe, effective, and free. Currently, approximately 57% of New York City 12-17 year olds have at least one dose, and families can go to vaccinefinder.nyc.gov to find a convenient vaccination site. Additionally, mobile vaccination sites are visiting schools and PSAL conditioning sites across the city this fall.
DOE recently created a COVID-19 vaccination portal for all staff to log their vaccination status. We are now making that website available to families at https://vaccine.schools.nyc. The Vaccination Portal allows employees and families to upload proof of vaccination, which can be an image of a vaccination card, NYS Excelsior Pass, or other government record. Submitting this information will support New York City's pandemic response and recovery efforts, and help ensure that the DOE schools and buildings remain safe places for all students and staff. 
“We owe it to our young people to make it possible for them to safely return to the sports they love,” said Schools Chancellor Meisha Porter. “Vaccinations are our passport out of this pandemic and this vaccine mandate will ensure everyone on high-risk teams are protected and able to compete.”  
“Sports help keep young people healthy and vaccines will keep them in the game,” said Health Commissioner Dr. Dave A. Chokshi. “This is a sensible approach to athletics that involve closer contact. We applaud the Department of Education for taking this step to protect young athletes.”
Check the DOE's website here for Chancellor Meisha Porter's letter to families in all languages,



Camp Stuy for incoming freshmen AND rising sophomores 8/31-9/2. Check your email for your 
homeroom's assigned date and session time!
Camp Stuy for incoming students as well as rising sophomores is a half day session assigned by homeroom that will take place 8/31 through 9/2. Check your email for your assigned date and time. Students will meet administration; take student ID photos, meet school counselors and Big Sib mentors and bond with their fellow homeroom classmates. Freshmen students will take the swim test. ALL sophomores are waived from the swim test. If you miss it; don't worry! There will be make-up swim tests in September and you'll get information during the first few days of school. We're looking forward to meeting you in person! If you have questions please email accepted@stuy.edu.


 
Camp Stuy for incoming freshman parents and guardians will take place on September 3, 2021 IN person at Stuyvesant High School.
ONLY PARENTS/GUARDIANS OF FRESHMEN AND THOSE PARENTS OF 3JA SOPHOMORES WHO ARE NEW TO STUYVESANT'S REGISTER FOR FALL 2021 MAY ATTEND THE FRESHMAN PARENT CAMP STUY.
Families have been emailed their assigned half day session time that is broken down by student homeroom. Families will hear from administration, meet school counselors and get answers to questions from fellow parents and guardians, as well as Big Sib student mentors.
Among the topics that will be covered: Health & Safety, what to expect, and how to become an involved parent/guardian.
The Administration asks that due to space constraints as well as social distancing that only ONE parent/guardian attend for each student. The Google form to respond can be found at this link.
There will be grade-specific workshops later in the year, the first of which will be a 'Stuy 101' workshop for families on September 30, 2021 at 6:30 pm.
Please Watch This Welcome Video From the PA.


 
Volunteer Parents needed at Camp Stuy for Freshmen Parents on 9/3/2021!
Please help us welcome incoming parents to the Stuyvesant family and offer advice during homeroom breakout sessions on Friday, September 3, 2021! We need Stuy parents to speak to incoming parents/guardians about their Stuy experience, answer questions and concerns and talk about entering high school jitters. No experience? No worries!  The school as well as the PA will supply you with fact sheets and details to lean on.
To sign up, please fill out this form.
Volunteers will be assigned to a classroom for breakout sessions where Big Sib Homeroom leaders, school counselors and you will speak on all things Stuy, including how to become involved with the PA as well as your advice and experiences. We are aware that many have not had the opportunity to fully experience Stuyvesant, but no worries! The school as well as the PA will supply you with fact sheets and details to lean on.
Instead of the usual half day session where we entertain over 700 parents and guardians, we have broken up Camp Stuy to two sessions with half attending in the morning and half in the afternoon assigned by homeroom. Health and safety is a priority so please follow social distancing and remain masked at all times. 

 
Pandemic-EBT (P-EBT) Queens Information Webinar   August 25th 6:30PM-8:00PM
Community Food Advocates and Parent Leaders of Queens South invite you to learn about Pandemic-EST (P-EBT) in NYC for the 2020-2021 school year. We will provide an overview of the new wave of P-EBT, current updates on the distribution efforts from the State, provide resources. and answer frequently asked questions. REGISTER HERE


 
Sophomores: Join Mu Alpha Theta by 8/29; National High School Mathematics Honor Society
Mu Alpha Theta is the National High School Mathematics Honor Society. The organization recognizes students who excel in mathematics at Stuyvesant and allows students to participate in mathematics related events and competitions. Not only does it allow students to interact with other students interested in math within Stuyvesant, it also connects students across the country through national events. Furthermore, the Honor Society gives students an opportunity to demonstrate their skills and be acknowledged for their achievements through awards, grants, and scholarships. If you are looking to try out more math competitions or learn advanced mathematics topics, you should apply!
Requirements:
Be at least a Sophomore
You must have completed Algebra 2
92+ Honors Math Average or 94+ Regular Math Average
One time $10 Fee for National Dues
We encourage everyone who satisfies these requirements to apply. If you are selected to be a member for this year, you will automatically be a member next year as well if you continue to maintain the above requirements. Seniors who are members of this society also have the option of purchasing a cord for graduation. Spots are competitive and limited, so please try to submit a strong application! 
Application: https://bit.ly/2UfVCD8
This application will be due on Sunday, 8/29/2021 at 11:59 PM. 
If you have any questions about the application or the society, please feel free to email mualphathetastuy@gmail.com.


CPAC (Chancellor's Parent Advisory Committee) Meeting - August 24, 2021 @9:30am
Topic: CPAC General Membership Meeting
Time: August 24, 2021 10:00 AM Eastern Time (US and Canada)
A link for the live streaming of this meeting will be posted here at 09:45 AM on the day of the meeting.
AGENDA:
10:00 - Roll Call
10:05 - A660 Bridge Team Updates & A Review of PA/PTA/Presidents' Council President Role & Responsibilities by Shirley Aubin & Randi Garay
10:50 - CPAC Business


UPDATE: Get your COVID-19 Vaccine & get $100 for you and the Stuy PA!
Safe and effective COVID-19 vaccines are now available in New York City to help us end the COVID-19 pandemic. They are easily available to most New Yorkers and all vaccinations are free.
It has never been easier to get a COVID-19 vaccination in NYC. Children 12-17 years old are eligible for the vaccine. Those who are fully vaccinated can more safely gather with friends and enjoy other benefits of vaccination, so get your shot today.
Some schools have walk-in vaccination sites - dates and locations can be found on the DOE's website.
Check out this Frequently Asked Questions About COVID-19 Vaccines for Families and Educators for more information.
Also, check out the Department of Health and Mental Hygiene's Back to School Youth Vaccination Information videos in multiple languages here: https://www.youtube.com/c/NYCHealth/videos
To find a vaccination site near you, including those that take appointments, use the City's Vaccine Finder (not accessible with Internet Explorer). Note, people who are 12 to 17 years old can only receive the Pfizer vaccine.
Learn more about which groups are eligible for vaccination covered by the State's latest guidance.
Individuals 12+ are able to book vaccine appointments at many locations throughout the city using the NYC Vaccine Finder or by calling 1-877-VAX-4NYC. Check back here for additional updates or text COVID to 692-692 to receive real-time updates on vaccine distribution.
Vaccinations at home
Walk-up vaccination sites
NYC mobile vaccine vans and buses
Need another reason to get a vaccine? New Yorkers can get $100, free tickets, memberships, or gifts for getting vaccinated against COVID-19. These giveaways will be available for a limited time. Check here for more information and find out how the PA can benefit as well, Read more here.


Free, Fast Wi-Fi in NYC
LinkNYC is a first-of-its-kind communications network that is replacing pay phones across the five boroughs with new structures called Links. Each Link provides super fast, free public Wi-Fi, phone calls, device charging, and a tablet for access to city services, maps and directions. Learn more here.
As part of their franchise contract renewals with the City, Time Warner Cable and Cablevision have partnered with DoITT and the Parks Department to provide public Wi-Fi service in nearly 80 parks locations across the five boroughs. NYC Parks Wi-Fi access is available on a free and limited-free basis. View a map of Parks WiFi locations. Learn more here.
All branches of the Library feature computers that offer access to the Internet, electronic databases, library catalogs, and Microsoft Office. Every location also offers free Wi-Fi access during open hours. Learn more here.
Learn more about Broadband Access programs here:
Emergency Broadband Benefit
Harlem WiFi
NYC Connected Communities
NYCHA Digital Van
TWC Learning Labs


Interested in Varsity and JV Baseball ?
Anyone interested in playing Varsity or JV baseball please contact Coach Carlesi at jcarles@schools.nyc.gov


NY State Guidance for School Year 2021-22; Download the Guide
Last week, the New York State Education Department issued a Health and Safety Guide for the 2021-2022 School Year.  
The guide describes a range of strategies that schools and districts should consider, and provides recommendations based on the best health and safety information currently available.

 
Class of 2022: Get your Meningococcal Vaccine! Forms due by Fall 2021
On behalf of Assistant Principal, Brian Moran, please note the MENINGOCOCCAL (MENACWY) immunization is required for all students in NYC public schools at age 16.  Please send in the form found at this link to Ms. Bullock or contact her at abullock@schools.nyc.gov for any questions and/or concerns.


 
College Info Night for Seniors 9/14/2021!
Save the date for our fall Senior College Night, during which we will provide students and parents with helpful logistical details and advice regarding the college application process.  This event will be held in a virtual format.
Tuesday, September 14, 7:00pm: Senior College Night It is important that each family is represented at this virtual event, as we will cover all of the critical information our seniors will need in order to successfully apply to college this fall. This event is for students and parents.   Registration information will be emailed to seniors & parents in September.  Simultaneous interpretation in Chinese will be available.
We will also host our annual financial aid night in October, date tbd.  We will email this information to families once it is confirmed.


 
How to help someone who needs mental healthcare
Get started with a new guide from the Mayor's Office of Community Mental Health, produced with NYC Health + Hospitals and the NYC Health Department. The guide walks you through how to get mental health support for anyone, at any level of need - including what to know, where to look, and who to call.
Explore the guide online here.


NYC Students can access digital books FREE
Every student in our NYC Public Schools has access to the SORA eBook platform, which has a diverse and inclusive collection of titles. 
The NYC Department of Library Services/NYC School Library System team has developed a student and educator facing page that provides a better overview of the collection they curated on Sora. Check out the collection at the Citywide Digital Library. There are over 19,000 unique titles with hundreds of thousands of copies and Sora can be linked directly to the public library systems.


Incoming Freshman Families: Complete all onboarding forms. Portal closes on 9/1/2021
The Incoming Student Portal on the parent Talos account for incoming families will close on September 1, 2021. All forms for programming should already be completed and submitted. All health and immunization forms and forms for those coming from private or public schools should be uploaded before the portal closes on September 1. 2021.


 What has the Stuy Community been up to this summer?

Biology Teacher, Ms. Maggio's students travel to Yellowstone National Park; Read their Travel Blog.
 

Congrats to Ms. Dunkel's students! Stuy dominates the Princeton Gerrymandering Project. See Details.
 
 

Congrats to Tamzid Tapan,   participant in 9/11 Tribute to air on 9/7/2021; See more photos.

Congrats Stuy '21 Kristoff Misquitta - Presented at Genes in Space Finals & Launch to ISS. Get details and watch the launch on YouTube.
Congratulations Stuy PA! Successful College Essay Writing Workshops this summer! Read details. 
