Weekly Schedule: 1.3-1.7
Hey Stuy,

Happy New Year!! We hope you all had a fantastic break!

Here's this week's schedule:

Important Announcements:

Click here to read through the SU's January Newsletter! Included, you'll find important dates, general updates, and what the SU has been working on! As always, email us at executive@stuysu.org if you have any questions or concerns.

SENIORS: All seniors must purchase senior graduation packages if you plan on attending graduation. This package consists of a cap/gown/tassel set, a senior T-Shirt, diploma holder, and graduation keychain. The total cost is $60.98 and you must purchase here by March 1, 2022 at midnight. Again, it is required if you would like to attend graduation.
Weekly Schedule:

All in-person afterschool activities with the exception of PSAL scheduled games (no spectators) will be canceled until further notice. 
School Calendar (tentative Finals Schedule)
General Announcements:

The SU External Affairs Department has recently started a new monthly newsletter, focused on soft skills needed in the workplace. Check out our first issue about Time Management!

The SU is excited to announce that this year's SING! coordinators have been selected. We look forward to beginning an amazing production season. Huge congratulations!
Soph-Frosh: Caroline Stansberry
Junior: Lianne Ohayon
Senior: Alec Shafran
Congratulations to senior Emmanuel Abayev and sophomore Celeste Hoo for winning the SU's Elf Scavenger Hunt!
Morning Announcements
 
If you'd like to advertise a club or shoutout an achievement, fill out this form for morning announcements that will be shared with the entire school! Also, be sure to submit something for our Friday Joke of the Day!
MyRobin: Power Of The Voice

In an effort to address the difficult balance between social-emotional health and academics at Stuy, the administration is working with MyRobin to bring helpful video content. Check out this week's video titled Power of the Voice.
Eco Fact
Brought to You By the Stuyvesant Environmental Club!

The salt used to save lives from the dangers of icy roads a decade ago now threatens the well-being of people, flora and fauna today. As effective as road salt is, it is also highly corrosive to automobiles and infrastructure. This pollution is not effectively handled by natural processes, meaning that the concentration of chloride can gradually build up until the water becomes uninhabitable to wildlife. All the while the road salt increases the salinization of the soil destroying the food resources and habitats of terrestrial and aquatic wildlife alike. While the method of shoveling away the snow (or paying someone else to do it) before it freezes is the most environmentally friendly option to prevent ice, the minimal time, effort and expense required to toss some salt on the road is often far more appealing. Nature cannot metabolize or break down the chloride contained in rock salt and other solutions like dilution are costly in either time or money. Until an effective and environmentally friendly solution is found, individuals can reduce their impact on the environment and themselves by keeping their use of salt to a minimum.

If you have any questions or suggestions, please don't hesitate to email us at executive@stuysu.org.

Have a great week!

Best,

Shivali
SU President